(upbeat music)
- All right, so what we've gathered here,
kinda virtually.
- Virtually.
- We're once again not in the same room with one another.
- It's far away from each other as it can possibly be.
- That's entirely untrue.
We're still all in the same city.
We could get much further if we tried.
- That's true.
- We had the tenacity and the gumption we could.
- Pretty good distance being still within the city bounds.
- Actually, yeah, I guess we'd have the city
somewhat surrounded.
- Yeah.
- It's hard to do this without seeing your face do.
Giving me those sideways glances.
- That disapproving look.
- That raised eyebrow.
- From time to time.
- Just imagine that.
Do you want me to send you a picture of it now?
And just imagine it the whole time.
- Giving me that disapproving glare.
- I mean, know that it's constantly on.
- Oh, I'm assuming.
- Yeah, so we are very social distancing once again.
And hopefully we corrected some of the problems
in the recording last time.
Apologies to all the listeners.
That was not our finest recording hour.
- It was a learning experience.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah.
- Reasing a healthy stack of free software to do this
between discord and audacity.
- How old is audacity?
Like is that pre-day cool-edited pro days?
Or is that wrong? - Yeah.
- That post.
- I think it's post-cool edit.
'Cause cool edit I had in the 90s.
- Okay, cool edit was definitely 96, I think, or 95.
- Or was audacity like the next version of it?
Did it turn into audacity?
Or am I thinking of something else?
- 1999 is their first year they claim.
- For audacity and you project.
- Yeah.
- Oh, it came out of CMU?
- I did not know that.
Yeah, I don't know. - I don't know.
- It did.
- So we're using free Pittsburgh brood.
- Software.
How appropriate.
- Yeah.
Oh, wow.
Cool edit is now Adobe Audition.
- Oh yeah.
- That's what I was saying, Audition, not audacity.
Okay, yeah, and my bed.
Close.
- Yeah, I mean, we talked about trackers,
we talked about fast tracker and what was the mod tracker?
Mod tracker?
Oh yeah, mod tracker.
Oh, the other one's gonna have a little--
- What was the mod tracker?
- Mod tracker.
- I'll say what's mod tracker for 200, Alex?
- Hopefully this isn't like a recurring thing,
we just keep going further and further into the past.
- I'm into it.
Hammerhead, dude.
- Oh.
- Dude, I do love Hammerhead.
When it worked, I had a lot of trouble at the time
getting Hammerhead to work on the 486 that I was running it on.
But that's not what we came here to talk about.
- No.
- Fuck software, we're here to talk about gear.
- Did anybody have software on their list of things?
- Fuck no.
- No.
- I think we did.
- No, this is all hardware.
- Factum, maybe commenting on enjoying not using a computer
what's so fucking ever lately.
- Yeah, that's the boat that I'm trying to get into.
Like I was tired of a computer for a while already,
but now working from home every day,
and then when I'm done working from home,
I'm just still sitting there on a computer.
Like that's the last thing I want to look at
when I'm working on music right now.
- But Nick might be the closest to living the dream
of the completely computerless setup.
- I feel like I am living the dream right now
'cause like, okay, get into the sound devices,
mix pre six version two.
So I got this like wild hair up my ass
and partially because it's like humid upstairs.
I've got like fortunate to have central air in the house,
which was like required when I started working
from home years ago.
And, but it's still humid up there.
And I was just like working in the same spot
that I had my studio gear and I'm like, fuck this, right?
Like I gotta get the fuck out of here.
So I also happened to need a dining room table
for domestic reasons, if you will.
And I'd never fucking eat on the thing.
It's got gear and a computer setup on it right now.
Just the computer for podcast recording, but
I got this mixed pre six and was like, you know what?
Like I just need six tracks for a court anyway.
I need like drum machine synthesizer and then synth two
and effects or something like that.
So I've been sitting here down at this table like at night,
like working on stuff lately the past couple of days.
This thing just showed up like, you know,
a couple of days ago.
And man, it's really nice.
It's nice just knowing that I just hit this record button
and it immediately starts recording all the tracks.
Like I got it set up one time and didn't have to do anything
other than hit record and like see these like
perfect fucking meters show me on my levels.
And I can be like, oh, okay, I'm gonna go to like
the next thing, I'm gonna change this module or patch.
I wanna go to the next piece.
I just hit record again.
It adds a timestamp and I fucking go to the next thing.
At the end of the night, this is one of my favorite features
of this thing.
It's got internal SD card.
So you've gotta give it like a fast like,
has to be class 10 or higher SD card to record all the shit.
But it's also got auto copy to a USB port on it.
So you can just put a thumb drive into that port.
And as soon as you hit stop or you hit another take,
it's internally copying that data over to the USB.
So at the end of it, I just like, okay,
I'm done with this recorder.
I turn it off, I take the thumb drive out
and then I go sit on the couch with the laptop
and I'm like, what the fuck did I record?
And it's beautiful right now.
It's like this harvesting session where
I've been using the shit completely in the dark.
I realized that I know my module is pretty well
and I know the analog rhythm really fucking well.
And I've just been zoning out and tracking shit.
And I think one more week and I'm gonna be ready
to mix down and actually get to this release.
And I was just kind of fumbling around before upstairs,
trying to get so much gear working.
And now I've got a 7U IntelliJel,
the rhythm, the H9 in this recorder,
and that's fucking it.
And I'll probably get rid of everything else,
but a poly synth at this point in a MIDI box
and I wouldn't fucking care.
- What's that thing called again?
- It's sound devices and so they generally make like film shit.
Sound devices all started with film
and audio production for film.
So it's like a really like burly small, mix pre-six.
They make a three, a six and a 10.
And it's their kind of consumer version
of their super high end shit, which goes up
to like the $5,000 range, like $3,000.
Like if you're, you know, that's like,
I think they were using it on like Star Trek
or some shit like that.
Like it's what you use if you record audio in films,
basically, and actually use that audio.
- I had never heard of it until you mentioned
that you got one and I was like looking at the website
and I was like, never heard of these guys.
I was like, these look pretty sweet.
- It was through Rich Divine actually
that I first heard about Sound devices.
And I was like, oh shit.
And then I started noticing it more
in like tape op and other magazines.
And I was like, okay, this looks like,
this is what I want.
I want like multi-track recording that's standalone
that I can just put onto a DAW.
And now it's like, I could do what I need to do
on any computer that will run Ableton.
I don't even need an audio interface,
even though this thing will work that way.
Before it was always like this.
I had to have this low latency audio interface
so I can do this.
Like I give up things like overdubs,
but like shit, I can just line that up
in Ableton and do it anyway now.
Like that's not like, I'm not even sweating that.
Like DAWs are like, it's perfect for that, you know?
So I don't have like the synced MIDI
of what I was doing before,
but I just use the clock of the rhythm into the modular.
And the in all rhythm clock is like super dead on solid
and always has been.
So that shit like lines up perfectly in the eloquencer
as my main sequence are driving the voltage lab
and the 301.
And it's just like, well, these are the limits
that you should set for yourself.
It's just fucking so perfect.
- So you send a MIDI clock from the rhythm now
to like everything?
- Yeah, it goes into the one new MIDI interface
on the 7U, on the IntelliJel.
And that goes to the eloquencer clock.
It goes to the four millisecond peg,
ping inputs to like clock those modulators
and then just wherever else it needs to go from there.
- Seems stable.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
Totally super dead on as tight as anything else
I've ever used, like hardware stable, you know?
It's nice.
- That was one of the things I was trying to consider.
Like when I was looking at multi-track recorders,
'cause I've been in the same boat trying to figure out
if I want to go that route or not
instead of using my computer.
And I was trying to wrap my head around like,
what I use is like the most stable clock source
if I were to go that route.
Well actually, I don't even use my audio interface
to send clock anymore.
I had to get a separate MIDI interface
because the clock out from my Scarlett 18i20,
Gen 2, kept screwing up like it was unreliable
and some sequencers I was trying to clock with it
just did not like it for whatever reason
and just kept causing weird glitches.
- Yeah.
- It was making my daw freak out.
Like it was, I don't know why, but when I would send--
- Like freak out how.
- It was like causing artifacts.
You know when you go into like the OCO panel,
you're gonna adjust latency and things like that.
Didn't matter what latency I'd put it at.
If I was running MIDI clock out of this thing,
it would cause spikes in the latency on occasion.
Like just very intermittent spikes.
Like the CPU would just spike up for a second
and cause hitches and things like that.
And it took me forever to figure out
what the hell was causing it.
'Cause like I thought it was like a problem on my computer,
you know, but I had rebuilt my entire desktop
a couple months ago and the problem persisted.
So I was like, okay, clearly it wasn't anything
on my computer, which, so then I just started going piece
by piece and I figured out it was MIDI out of my interface.
So I disabled it and I'm using a Roland little like USB interface
to send MIDI clock out separately from my audio interface
and everything's been smooth since.
So focus rate kind of sucks.
- I've never had good luck with using a computer for MIDI out.
Even MIDI in has been temperamental.
I mean, nothing compared to like actually having a piece
of hardware, either the electron.
I think I'd rather have an electron doing the master clock,
master sequence. - Really?
- It's more reliable.
Oh yeah, no, this is, I've always had a problem with computer
and it's always been nothing as dramatic
as what you just described.
- I can't even get-- - And I'm sure
like I've always had problems.
- I can't even get the Gmail app to successfully tell me
if I have a fucking email or not.
Like they have broken that and fixed it in the changelock
so many fucking times that I'm just like,
oh you're never, you can't tell me
how many fucking emails I have.
Like I don't, there are too many layers
for USB MIDI to ever work.
It's just like, it's like Bluetooth, you know?
It's like, oh, there are like 10 implementations
of these four different specs.
Like you fucked up, you know?
- And it's just like software in general.
I mean, there's just so many layers of abstraction
on top of every piece of software we use.
And at some point, a piece of hardware
will eventually get an instruction
but it's gone through libraries and abstractions.
And it's a miracle any of the stuff works at all,
let alone something that's so highly relying on timing,
real time processing like MIDI.
- I've always kind of been the opposite.
Like you guys are well more versed in MIDI on hardware
than I am.
Like I tend to not even touch it on hardware ever.
Like--
- Did you have like a bad experience with it?
'Cause I mean--
- No, it just, it wasn't the way I worked.
Like from the time I've ever started making computer music
I've used my computer for recording.
And it's always been my thing.
Like as soon as I hit play or record on the computer,
I want everything else to just be in sync
and coming into the computer for recording.
Multi-tracked out.
And yeah, it's been like 15 years of the same bullshit.
So I'm kind of finally wanting to shift gears a little bit
and maybe go like Nick is saying,
you know, go a hardware route here
and just sync everything outside of the computer,
record everything outside of the computer
and only use computer for layering the final recorded results.
- Yeah, if I could just get down to just doing arranging
and I kind of am.
The last bit really for me is I still record in Ableton
and then do arrangement in it.
But if I could even remove recording
and literally just had, you know,
throw these things into Ableton and just do arrangements.
That would be super okay with that.
- That's where I'm going.
I'll always arrange Ableton at this point
unless something drastically changes.
It's just too natural to use that.
But, you know, I was like,
I was thinking about this the other day
'cause it was up way too late.
And I was like, okay,
I have like a seven core modular, if you will.
It's just completely distributed.
There are literal like arm cores in there.
Some of them up to like a gigahertz of like,
okay, like this is my fucking computer, you know?
And I was even talking to the Afro rack guy about that.
And super cool, by the way,
super worthwhile program.
And like we were talking like part of the reason
he likes teaching about modular, specifically to kids
is to like to have you think about systems
a little differently.
And it's not like, of course you're gonna sit down
and like, well, Ableton's done that for you.
You know, it's a little different thing to be like,
oh, I can influence the system.
Not like this is well-hashed shit,
but it's just like kind of the way you think
about systems is important, I think.
And like, I don't trust a central threading mechanism
for music anymore, you know?
- I like that.
I like that mindset.
I've kind of been going the same direction as weird
'cause I don't think we've even really discussed it
until now, but yeah, I've been on a similar page
during this quarantine, drifting away from the computer.
Like my trust in it has been broken too many times.
- Like Nick was saying though, I mean,
I think a lot of this is also driving us
to think about our relationship with computers,
even though we had, before all of this,
spent a lot of time on computer,
it was usually like a different computer,
or at least a different setting.
But now when it's, I think there's so much more obvious
that like all I've done is sat at a computer.
- Not just, yeah, not just at a computer,
but in the same room.
Like my work from home office is also my studio now
and it's also my recreational gaming computer.
So like, everything is happening in this room,
usually in front of a screen.
So like I just have to deviate from that
in order to get into the mindset of like creating,
you know, it's like what it was.
- We've definitely talked about getting away
from computers in the past.
- We have.
- But it was, but like not to the street.
- It's not just desertizing.
- Yeah, it's like, it's more urgent now, I think.
- 'Cause I had to remember too why that started for me
and it was when my wrists were fucking up
because there were repetitive strain injuries in my job
that I was like, okay, like, 'cause I would work,
you know, my web job, I would do freelance
and then I would like, I remember like,
bug testing live for and like making music
and being like, okay, I literally like,
I put in 18 hours on a fucking computer today.
And that's when I restarted a fuck up
and it was like, well, you've got to pick,
like you've got to find something that's different
if you want to keep doing any of this.
'Cause the reality was like,
or you have to quit like the way you support yourself
and you don't have a good way to like fix that right now.
So yeah, part of it was like just wanting to like,
I can't keep using a mouse or I can't like just
hunch all day like this.
- How much did that thing run?
- Cost one.
- You recorded?
- Yeah.
- It was just 900 bucks.
It's definitely not cheap.
- Yeah.
- That's the sixth channel one though, right?
- Yeah, six channels, right?
- Yeah, you can get the other one for like 600
and it was at that point like, oh, I'm gonna pay like
the extra 300 to get double the channels
and like the six inputs and the three doesn't have combo jocks.
Like and that brings us to the zoom F6 is out there too.
And the zoom F6 is like half the price.
But it doesn't like, if you look at the front of it
that you can't use the knobs very well,
they're like jammed in together
and everybody complained about that.
And also it doesn't have combo jacks.
So I'd have to have like a wiring harness
just to convert the instruments to pure XLR.
And that was actually what preventary I would have gotten it
if I didn't notice at the last minute like,
oh shit, I'm gonna have to like buy cables
and make them to fucking use this fuck you.
I don't have time for that, right?
- That's a little surprising.
- Yeah.
- That's surprising.
I feel like the combo jack is like standard issue now.
- Yeah, you've got a, that's like no brainer, right?
Like why wouldn't you pay no trick the extra like,
I mean, it's probably an extra dollar
but that's money well spent like, you know, dollar
like production scale dollars like.
- Right, right.
I wouldn't have even checked honestly.
- Yeah.
- I would have just assumed.
- 'Cause I didn't buy your fucking product because of that.
I would have been sitting here using it right now if not.
And I'm glad like, actually it,
I had to read both manuals to see what I was getting
and they had so many like this, the mixed pre six seemed
like they had thought of everything.
It was like clear like, okay, people,
people used the first one and they got feedback
on everything basically and up.
And it's cool to see that there's a USB C jack
and you can like, if I hooked it up right now,
I could just be also streaming all this audio
to my computer at the same time
while it's recording internally
and while it's backing up on the USB drive.
It just like, it works.
Also, I could like throw it down the street
and it would fuck up the street more than the device.
You know what I mean?
Like it's really well made.
I got it and I was like, oh, this is nicer
than anything I've ever had.
- So you mentioned divine was talking about it.
How was he using it?
Is he using it like in studio or is it like something he takes
for like field recordings or something?
- Good question.
So this is one of the ones that supports ambisonic recordings
like the VR audio.
But he was also using like their even more expensive devices
that were out before this existed
just to do like his super high res field recording.
'Cause you can do like 128 kilohertz on this,
which will let you do the trick of like, you know,
recording an ultra high sample of rate
and then pitching that shit down
and getting all those artifacts that you would miss
at lower sample rates.
- Instead of a battery or was he using like a power source
or something like a USB power source?
- There are a few options for that.
So it comes with a double A battery thing
that clips into the back.
- Oh, no shit.
- But you can also get, and you can get those in two sizes,
but it also takes the Sony L camcorder batteries
that people use.
And apparently if you hook up one of those,
you can use it like all day basically.
Or if you recommend these anchor batteries.
And they're like, yeah, we've like had multiple days
of like multi-track recording on a battery charge before.
- No shit.
- Yeah, so it's like, yeah, it's pretty slick.
I was like kind of curious before we started recording.
Now I really, really want one.
- Yeah, you kind of got me a little jelly.
- I would gladly shit talk it if I didn't really like it,
but so far, so far it's like,
it's just, it's doing what I wanted it to.
- I trust the listeners know that we would not hold back.
- I saw people bitching online surprise.
There are two modes for this thing.
There's a basic and an advanced mode, right?
So if you have in the basic mode,
you can use it without even looking at a manual
out of the box of recorded podcast.
Like it's, it couldn't be any fucking easier.
But there was a dude bitching about the advanced mode
having too many options.
And it's like, they gave you a really fucking configurable
device and you're bitching because there are too many
options to go through.
- So he wanted a basic and intermediary mode
and an advanced mode.
- Pretty much.
And it was like, man, like, and it was like,
I know I'm just like, it's 'cause I couldn't immediately
figure it.
It's like, just shut the fuck up.
It's like, you know, it's perfect.
Sorry, I'm in a day.
What is that?
- One of the last things is that 32 bit recording,
which I'm actually using for the first time right now.
And they claim like, and the same thing with that Zoom F6
is like, you don't need to set the level.
And on the Zoom F6, you actually can't set any input gains
if you have it in that mode.
'Cause they will say that like, you would have to be
turning up the most sensitive mic as high as it goes next
to like a jet engine for it to clip.
Or something ridiculous like that.
'Cause it's got like 770 decibels of like input range.
Which is like, ow.
Yeah, that's fucking, that's ridiculous, right?
'Cause it uses a pair of AD converters apparently.
And that's how they get that much dynamic range,
which I don't pretend to understand how that works at all.
I've read through it and could nod along to myself,
but like, I don't know, you know, electrically
how that fucking works the way it does.
- Math, magic.
- Yeah, saying that I could probably get a much different
job if I did.
So yeah, I'm like super into it.
I'm sorry that you now want to spend like a lot of money.
- Yeah, and this is the wrong time to have
that discussion with me too.
'Cause I'm like, I'm like, I'm elbow deep in rearranging
and rewiring my studio right now.
Like trying to rework my entire workflow basically.
- I, that is so weird, 'cause we didn't talk about this.
And I did the same thing.
- Yeah, it's like I just finished it.
- Seems like all three of us are in sync.
- It's a little creepy actually.
And yeah, it was just like, I woke up one day and was like,
I don't like this.
It wasn't like I had this like grand plan.
I haven't been thinking about it for a long time.
I just like woke up and looked at it.
I'm like, no, this isn't right.
- No, I'm the exact same way I did.
- Unplugged everything, took like every power cord,
every audio cable,
got rid of the like the patch bay just,
and just started putting it back up and was like,
no, you should be here.
And you should be here and you should be here.
And then it was like a weekend.
And at the end of it, I'm like, oh, yeah,
this is what it should have been all along.
And now I'm super happy with it.
And like even just having finished that,
just now I've been like doing a ton of shit.
- Yeah, the weekend I picked to do that was this one.
'Cause I was like, I got a three day weekend for the holiday.
I'm gonna use that opportunity to just rewire, rework,
everything.
I did the same thing, put the patch bay in the closet,
got a line mixer that I'm now utilizing
every single input and output on it.
So it was 10 inputs, two auxiliary sends,
one balanced XLR out.
So I'm using that to it's like full capacity.
And I'm thinking about getting a second one.
And you know, just figuring out where things need to be,
like gear wise and within the modular.
I was rethinking where things should be in the modular
stuff like that, coming up with like a better workflow.
- I think mine may have actually been prompted
by getting a pallet, one of the intelligel pallet cases
to go at my seven U.
- Same here.
- So I had things kind of like spread out
in like a couple of these tiny like four M.S. pods.
And the pods themselves were fine, whatever,
but I was getting noise out of them.
And I was like, okay, I'm gonna get a pallet.
And then once I got that, I was like,
oh, I think that just kicked my brain into,
we were gonna reorganize this, don't stop there.
- I did the same.
- That's really fucking weird, man,
because I also did the same.
Last week I mentioned I was gonna swap out
the power supplies and my dope for cases again.
And that was like what initiated this whole thing.
Like I did the surgery on my second P9 case,
got a PSU three in there, eliminated any noise,
got enough power to run everything now.
And that just like started a chain reaction in my brain
of like getting everything else in order.
Like how we were talking earlier, like it's hard
to get into the flow when you're also like
doing everything else in the same space
and starting at a screen and all that.
So I wanted to come up with a workflow that has like
is fluid in the most minimal amount of preparation required
to get into the groove of creating, recording, editing.
So I wanted to make sure everything was like set up for that.
Eliminate things that have too much menu diving
which I hate, eliminate anything that just has
too many key combos or just I'm tired of having to memorize
or reference a manual for every little module
because they got too much shit crammed
into a small interface, you know what I mean?
It's like trying to do away with that,
stick with modules that I jive with
that have all the controls up front.
My line mixer, I like that.
I don't have to recalculate like with a patch bay
where everything's gonna have to go and relabel shit.
Like everything has its own dedicated channel,
its own mute, you know, gain, attenuation,
sends the whole nine yards,
like everything is just upfront, ready to go.
Always plugged in now.
So yeah, I don't know, it's been a big reworking
and like the last step in that was me going back and forth
about possibly doing a, you know, a multi-track recorder
now instead of depending upon the computer.
And Nick, you're kind of like pushing me
in that direction now, even harder.
- Yeah, that's so funny 'cause I did the similar thing
with the modular itself to like posted
fucking Instagram photo of the setup I was using
and I like worked with that for a night
and that led me to do the same thing.
Like, okay, like half of the complex modules,
like I'm not using them right now
and they need to come out and I could take the stuff
out of the palette and like put it all in one case
and then out of the rhythm and it was just like,
it was like no friction, you know,
it was just like immediately, okay, like,
you should just work with this for a good minute.
- I am a little creeped out that we all sort of came
to this, these ideas independently and around the same time.
- It's a little weird.
- Because also I just watched a Minority Report
and they have those three--
- Shut the fuck up dude.
- You just re-watched Minority Report.
- I did, yeah, it was like how did I say that?
- Oh, good guy dude, I bought VR.
I bought an Oculus Rift S two weeks ago
and it got me in this vibe where I wanted
to re-watch all of my favorite VR,
Aug Men in Reality type of fucking movies
so I watched "Lama" or "Man"
and I watched Minority Report and yeah,
Minority Report's like still one of my favorites.
It's held up incredibly well, in my opinion.
- I was surprised how much it held up.
I have it on DVD somewhere, like I don't know why I waited
for it to show up on like Netflix to watch it again.
I was like, yeah, I'm gonna be disappointed.
This isn't gonna hold up as well and it was fantastic.
- Yeah.
- Again, though it is creepy that we ended up watching
like a 20 year old movie.
- Yeah, it's a little weird.
- At the same time.
- And some strange synchronicities going on here.
- Get out of my head Dave.
- Isn't it quiet right now because he also secretly
watched Minority Report and is just like,
and it's just like completely frightened and terror.
- You're like, I should be watching it right now.
- While we're doing this, just watching it, you know.
- Next up on my list that I haven't gotten to yet
was "Brain Scan".
I was gonna rewatch that one.
Oh, it's been a little, one of my all time favorites.
Surprisingly though, I don't think it held up well.
Like just going through it in my head.
I can already tell that it probably hasn't,
prior hasn't aged, aged like a nice milk
out in the summer heat.
- Now do you think it's just not as good?
Or do you think it has that sort of like,
when you go back and watch any 80s movies,
you're like, oh, this is problematic.
- Was that 80s or was that 90s?
I think that was 90s.
'Cause it got like the internet,
like the, if I recall it's got like real basic internet
functionality going on there from the like,
get the updates.
It's got CD-ROMs, so that's gotta be 90.
- Yeah, it's gotta be 90.
- Remember, it gets a little brain scan disc.
- Oh my God, it's 94, I was way the fuck.
(laughing)
I seriously thought that was an 80s movie.
- I mean, it's fucking Eddie Furlong,
so it's gotta be really 90.
- That should have been my first clue.
Yeah.
- Well, Terminator 2 was 91.
- Yeah, that was the, that was the start of his career, dude.
T2, brain scan, pet cemetery 2.
Ah, better stop, we're gonna veer off
into like a horror movie podcast.
- Does it just end there?
I mean, I don't think,
- Yeah, it might be at that point.
We might have just summed up his career.
- So wait, what were we talking about before we start talk?
Like this is-- - Virtual reality.
(laughing)
- While we're in a virtual reality right now.
- While we're in a simulation.
(sighing)
- 2020 is complicated.
(laughing)
- Honestly though, I feel like me getting virtual reality
finally, the timing couldn't have been any fucking better.
Like it is, it's like the perfect social escape
when you can't be social, you know?
Like, I don't know about many other areas,
but our county right now is back on lockdown.
So many other people probably aren't, but yeah, we like,
everything got locked back down now for a week.
Have to practice social distancing still.
So being able to like hop into a virtual pub
and bullshit with people in a 3D VR environment,
pretty weird and I think the right time for--
- Now, is it an actual pub they are going into?
- Oh yeah, dude VR chat.
There's like virtual bars, there's virtual nightclubs,
there's completely off the rails things.
- Okay, I was gonna say that's really disappointing
if it's just recreating reality.
Like the first thing should have been like a space station
then go work like off from there.
Like don't start with a pub.
- Yeah, it seems to be a lot of like this virtual
karaoke bars, people will hop into Discord
and like queue up requests and then you hop into
the virtual karaoke world and sing along.
- Well, that's fine.
I'm just saying like reality is awful, don't simulate it.
- Oh, it's awful virtual as well.
(laughing)
Trust me, I've seen some things Dave in the last two weeks.
I've seen some things.
That's the funny thing too about VR chat.
It's supposed to be all ages, the band anything that's not,
you know, safe for work or like all age friendly,
but it is not all age friendly Dave.
It is not.
- Are you scarred?
I mean, it's not a little short there.
- You can't unsee.
- Too much.
- You can't unsee what you have seen
in virtual reality Dave.
It's strange times they're in the virtual room.
- So I can't remember, were you pro or con virtual reality
at the beginning of this conversation?
- I'm pro but it's definitely terrible.
- That's what we had terrible.
- For sure.
- It's chaos in our Dave.
It's a lawless land.
- Like what they thought second life was gonna be?
- I never played second life, but I've heard stories
and yeah, I feel like this is exactly
all those stories come to life.
I've seen some cool shit too.
I've had some cool conversations with people in there
and shit so far over the last couple of weeks,
but yeah, there's some weird stuff going on.
- 'Cause you haven't sold me on this at all.
You haven't even told me it's just like lawn mower man.
- As somebody who really wants to go on a date right now,
this doesn't seem like a viable option to me at all.
- No, unless you wanna like go on a date with
a sweaty anime nerd who's drunk.
- Exactly.
- And go on.
- Using a voice changer to sound like an anime character.
- Just email me the details.
- Yeah, for the most part, it seems like pretty immature,
but I have found like more mature folks
in the karaoke rooms and there's some bars
called the Great Hug.
There was more adult people in there
just having conversations and stuff, but.
- So what do you look like?
- What do you, like what's your,
I don't know if they use Avatar or.
- I'm a big titty anime chick, Dave.
What else would I be?
- I should have not, why did I ask?
- But say for work, I'm closed, absolutely.
I don't even know what my avatar is, David.
When I've been using lately, I coffeeed from someone else.
Some green-haired anime chick, like eight foot tall,
glowing green, I have like body armor on
and a giant green glowing sword, it's pretty cool.
And I was like, yeah, I'll rock that.
Why not?
- So what's with the height?
It sounds like height is a thing in this.
- Because you can adjust height,
there's a lot of people that are like microscopic.
Like they're like teeny tiny little avatars,
you can hardly see them and they're like running around,
but then there's also dudes who are like 20 feet tall
bursting through like the ceilings of the rooms
that were in and things like that.
Just, I don't know, be big,
but my avatar is tall, Dave, 'cause I have high heels, okay?
This also just sounds like one giant group therapy set.
- Yeah.
- I'm sure there's people writing papers right now on--
- Yeah, I don't even mean that in a shitty way.
It really does just sound like a lot of people
collectively working on their shit in a shared space.
I'm actually kind of swinging back around to being like,
maybe this is not a bad thing.
- Yeah, same.
- Everyone just like, all cards on the table.
And you hit the ground running.
- Yeah, it's--
- I don't know, yeah.
Facebook fucking nailed it, you know?
- Or like Facebook in this sort of like weird,
manufacturer, highly curated presentation of yourself.
This just seems like raw, uncut-id.
- It reminds me of old internet, dude.
Like back in the early 90s, you know what I mean?
Where it was kind of like just free-frawl
and weird chat rooms and things of that nature.
And bulletin boards, it's like all that wrapped in the one
and put into a 3D space.
- It's interesting.
It's the only thing that has felt like old internet to me
in well over a decade.
Probably since when 4chan came to life
and was becoming popular in like 2004, 2005,
like that felt like old internet.
And I know I'm dating myself pretty hard here,
but like that only lasted like a year
before 4chan turned into a cesspool.
But I assume all of our listeners know that we're old.
- Yeah, I'm an old fuck.
- I posted a selfie this week.
I really must have needed some attention.
I had to like take myself from the side and be like,
"Okay, you're kind of a fool."
- I thought I was like, "Well, like it took a selfie."
- You turn a 40, it's gonna be okay.
I know you like wanna be seen right now,
but you're good, you're good.
Okay, fuck you're an idiot.
- Yeah, this is where I'm at.
- Old, yeah, we're all fucking old.
People should know that.
- Yeah.
(engine revving)
- I'm trying to find rhythm.
I think that's the problem.
I probably am not doing it on a proper quarter note.
I'm probably doing like one, two, three,
and then like a 16th note.
That's why I'm going early.
- That's 'cause we don't never practice that.
So we have sequencers do that for us.
Never practice rhythm.
Terrible at rhythm.
That is in cello, that is my 100%.
Like every problem I have is based on rhythm.
- Oh, I bet.
- Like my into zero. - Seriously?
- My problem is that I am constantly going too fast.
And I've recorded myself.
I pick up speed.
- That's interesting.
- If I've got to do like a half note,
I just, I clearly am just like,
"Oh, this is taking too long."
- See, that's the only thing I don't have problems with
is rhythm and things.
Like I can find rhythm in a lot of things
that like, I guess you wouldn't normally expect it.
- Well, no, it can't do them.
- Yeah, oh yeah.
That's why I've been playing Beat Saber a lot.
Like, and it's actually been in the going back
to virtual reality.
Like it's kind of annoying me 'cause I noticed
there's a few notes that are off in some of the songs
that are not where they should be rhythmically.
Like just a little bit off and it pisses me off
because I have a real good sense of rhythm.
Like sometimes I think I have like
fucking metronome in my brain.
- It's the weird thing though.
The second my instructor starts to,
like when he starts playing,
I sync up to him instantaneously.
- Yeah.
- The second it is me by myself,
my rhythm gets, like I start to pick up speed.
And I think the same thing is like when I used to play
like a Guitar Hero or any of those like rhythm games
and I have a visual cue, I'm dead on.
And if someone else is playing,
I will sync up to that and like music,
if I'm listening to music, I will tap my toes.
The second it is me by myself with just my brain,
I will start out at the right rhythm and then four bars in.
- That's interesting.
- It's already like dude, you're going way too fast.
- I'm pretty good at keeping pace
'cause I have a tap tempo on my phone.
'Cause when I go on my walks,
which I've been doing late at night now,
just to stay away from people,
I get a lot of beats in my head, you know what I mean?
And like, I like to keep track of what the BPM of them are
and stuff like that.
So like, I'll just have them like in my head
or I'll even like quietly beatbox them to myself,
things like that and like I'll tap it on the phone
and I'll pay attention to the BPMs and shit.
And like I'm almost always like at a steady number
whenever I do that.
Like I can just punch in a BPM.
It usually is around 110, like between 100 to 120,
but usually around 110 is like seems to be the beats
that pop into my head and I can keep track
almost to the decimal.
(laughs)
Like in my head, it's weird.
Yeah, I can tap it out and it'll just be right on point.
And sometimes I can even tell what BPM it's gonna be
before I even tap it out.
I like rhythms, I don't know.
I just suck ass with like keeping track of pitches
and melodies and tones.
I can't do that shit at all.
Yeah, I feel like I probably should have picked up
some drums instead of the saxophone
when I was in band as a kid, dude.
I mean, everyone, that would be the better choice.
Yes.
We don't need more saxos.
I just mean structurally wise,
like I probably would have been decent at drumming
had I started practicing it as opposed to like trying
to make a saxophone sound like anything that resembles music.
It's an awful instrument.
Yeah.
I mean, people that would play it well,
I mean, there are great saxophonyls.
People can play it well.
Yeah, but it's like five.
I was not one of them.
You weren't the sixth great saxophonist?
No.
Yeah.
I'm not even like Al Jurgensen level.
(laughing)
So wait, what else was on people's lists?
I am personally dying to know about the fucking Pulsar 23.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, same error.
You want me to discuss that a little?
My brief love affair with the Pulsar 23.
Yeah, we're getting like the trailer,
the Pulsars on the way.
The Pulsar is leaving the building.
There are people that have actually reached out to me
and were like, "Oh, is he gonna get a Pulsar
"because I wanna hear what he thinks about it?"
I, yeah, dude, I wanted to hear what I thought about it.
Like, I was excited for it.
It seemed like the perfect instrument to me.
And in some senses, it was.
We'll start from the beginning.
You had a set of expectations that you had for it.
You had like a plan for what you were going to use it for,
like what you wanted to do with it.
I tried to keep my expectations low,
but I did have some basic ideas
of what I was gonna do with it.
Yeah, well, yeah, I'll start from the very beginning.
Yeah, a few Pulsars had popped up on Muff's.
None of them that I was able to message in time
were black and I was really aiming for a black one.
That's what I had on pre-order.
'Cause that's the color that I really wanted.
Obviously, some were white, some were orange.
And I was like, "Hey, so I let those pass."
There was one black one that popped up.
It sold almost instantly.
I missed out on it.
And then in the middle of the night, one popped up
and I had just gotten my stimulus check finally.
And I was like, "Huh."
I was like, "I think this is fate.
"Celling me something here."
So--
You know what, I'm gonna interject.
It sounds like you were just looking
for an excuse to call fate.
(laughing)
That doesn't sound like fate.
Big daddy Trump wanted me to have a Pulsar 23.
So I had to do my democratic duty and buy it, obviously.
Stimulate that economy.
Right.
I would not their country.
Do my patriotic duty of supporting Russia.
So I messaged the guy and I was the first to hit him up.
So I was like, "All right, let's do this."
Funny story though, so we agree that I would pay shipping.
Shipping was not included in the price.
I was like, "Okay, fair enough."
I had, because of the nature of the stimulus check,
I had to do half on credit card, half of my bank account,
whatever, so I sent him two separate payments
so that PayPal didn't like destroy me with fees.
And he's like, "Okay, cool, we'll do shipping like after the fact.
I'll tell you how much it costs to ship out
and you can PayPal me once a tell."
I'm like, "Cool."
So he does that.
He hits me with an invoice, $230.
Oh, to ship.
And I said, "What the fuck?"
(laughing)
Does he live on the moon?
That's the only thing was he goes,
"I'll let you know ahead of time
if it's anything astronomical."
What?
So apparently $230 to him is not astronomical for shipping.
But yeah, he sent it out fully insured through UPS,
which is the absolute worst and most expensive
and signature required, which I asked him not to do.
So I was a little tilted about that,
but it did come in like two days.
So plugged it in,
went to town and immediately.
It is about as far from like an intuitive drum machine
as can be, but it's not unfamiliar territory.
You know what I mean?
Like having experience with circuit bent devices
and things like that, like I was getting it,
having lots of years fucking with a modular.
I understood what was going on there.
So real quick though, like,
are you talking about like the weird little post
the most that they have?
That's what was like non-intuitive?
Well, not just the post, but everything is either body contact
or using those posts and alligator clips.
And you can even use like, you know,
your body on those posts as well.
Yeah, everything is very tactile, very physical.
It's completely different flow
than probably any other drum machine I've ever messed with.
It was interesting to see how everything was laid out.
And like once you get a feel for it,
like everything's kind of broken down into cells.
It's a little confusing due to how everything is like labeled
or lack thereof.
I feel like this machine could definitely use
some sort of overlay to kind of group things up.
Like in the quick start guide.
Is a cell like a sample or is a cell like a track?
Like what analog with like typical nomenclature?
I guess you could call it a track.
He Vlad himself might call it a track.
I forget how it's worded, but you get four drum voices.
All little different.
You got your kick, your bass, your snare clap
and then like your hat, if I recall.
That's how I was using them at least.
You know what I mean?
Like they're pretty--
The whole machine is like this for?
Yeah, yeah.
And then everything else around it
is how you're sequencing or modulating those four voices.
And then at the bottom of each voice
you have like your touch pads,
which are used to enter notes into the looper.
Like it's all like loop based.
Like you don't really sequence you record loops.
But then that's all real time?
Like these, is it like a looper?
You can quantize, but it's like not real time
quantization.
It would be after the fact like once the loop takes effect,
could you change a loop?
Could you alter a loop that you had done?
Like you had fucked it up and that like was it easy
to sort of like reset or adjust?
You could remove things that you recorded,
you could overdub things that you recorded
and you could mix new loops on top of your previous loop.
So it's kind of like working with tape,
but it's invisible, you know what I mean?
And like you don't have like a lot of visual feedback.
You know what I mean?
You're just kind of going by sound and feel, which is cool.
It was definitely different.
And you could also like record notes.
Like one thing you could do is,
there's a big clock divider up there.
So you could actually like send gates from the clock divider
to your drum voices and record the notes
that is being inputted and you could like
break those up in weird ways using other utilities
that's on there.
- So the way are these loops notes or are they actual samples?
Like if you do a bunch of this looping
and you make a bunch of these recordings
and you go, wait, this now the sound doesn't sound right
and you make an adjustment.
- There's no sample, it's all analog.
So-- - Right, but like you make an adjustment
and you start playing that loop.
- You're recording like notes and velocity.
- So you can make adjustments to the sounds
and you will now get those new sounds
with the next iteration of the loop.
- Okay, right.
- So it's not like a loop or pedal
where you're actually recording the sound
and hearing that sound now going to play back.
- So you're recording like your interaction.
- Like an MPC, like real time MIDI input record
kind of sounds like, you know, hit the pads
and it'll quantize on the next pass.
- You're recording voltages.
You know what I mean?
It's basically what it is.
So like you can have variances in the velocity
and things like that, depending on like
how hard you touch it or accent it, things like that.
- No, I'm sorry, I'm harping on this.
Can you go back and say like,
oh, I didn't touch that hard enough
and adjust that one time you pressed it?
- Yep. - Okay.
And is that easy to do or was that something
that was somewhat cumbersome?
- I played with it a little bit.
It was a little cumbersome.
Like ultimately like after playing with that for a day
or two, I just started sequencing it, the MIDI.
I was using my vector for the most part, things like that.
Which is one of the things that turned me off
'cause I felt like by doing that,
I was kind of missing out on a large focus
of the device itself.
You know what I mean?
Like it seems like the whole looper functionality of it
was something Vlad thought out quite a bit
and was meant to be used with.
You know what I mean?
Like it's meant to be kind of played.
- Would you still buy it if it was just like
a sound module that was not as much money?
You know what I mean?
Or is that what you're maybe getting to?
Is that that was kind of part of the magic of it?
- Exactly, that's like the magic of it.
I mean you can sequence it like you would any other machine
but you're missing out on some of the magic there
at that point.
And then if you're just sequencing
a four voice analog drum machine,
then it's like, what are you doing with this then?
You know what I mean?
There's definitely other options out there in the market.
If you're just looking for like a small handful
of analog drum voices.
- Now could you see using this something like outside
the studio maybe like in a live setting
would this be more useful to you?
- If you were gonna do your entire performance around it,
sure.
But it's kind of like, I mean obviously you can't save
presets, you can't, you know, recall anything.
You would have to either enter in loops on the fly
or have it all patched up ahead of time.
So you're not gonna get a whole lot of time out of that.
You know what I mean?
I was trying to think of a way to use it live.
That was part of the reason why I bought it.
And the more I used it, the more I struggled to see
how I would do that efficiently.
You know, I mean sure it's possible
but like it would be a giant pain in the ass.
- Yeah, I mean we've talked about the whole thing
of like finding that balance in a live set of instruments
between like being able to recall stuff
but also having like stuff that you're playing.
It sounds like maybe this went too far the other direction.
- Sure, if you're gonna do like an improvised noise set
and you wanted to add some rhythmic elements to it,
I think it would be amazing for that.
Like if, for example, Nick,
if we were still doing like four pie stuff,
I think this would be the fucking ultimate drum machine
to have been in four pie.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah. - Like just improvised,
very raw, very analog, very tactile machine.
And that's the type of sound that comes out of it too.
At least that's the sound.
I was pulling out of it.
It's very heavy, dark, industrial, compatible sound.
You know, it has a good sound to it.
It's definitely not a 909808 sounding machine.
You know what I mean?
Like it sounds like something coming out of the abyss.
You know, it's just very,
it's not hard to conjure doom out of it, you know?
- See that sounds super appealing.
- Yeah, the effects on it, you know,
like it has a couple different flavors of distortion you can get.
It's not, it's not clean by any means.
Like I feel like if you're not using those distortion effects
or the delay/verb that's on there,
again, you're kind of missing out on the point of the machine.
Like if you're stripping away those effects,
which feel like they belong there, you know what I mean?
Like then you just have, again, four analog voices.
It's like... - Was there a lot of variety with them?
- You can get some variation on for sure.
There was different modes you could do with them.
Like a phaser type thing with the delay and things like that.
Like I, for only having like three base effects,
like there's a lot of variance to them.
Like you got distortion delay/verb.
- They also responsive to like touch control and stuff.
I mean, is that how you can put it all?
- Everything on it is.
Everything on the machine is all touch based
or you're using those posts and alligator clips.
And it has a lot of other utilities on board,
which is kind of what was the tipping point for me.
Like you have to be very meticulous with it.
You have to like plan out
how you're gonna approach this machine.
You know what I mean?
Like you have to get your patch in your head,
figure out how to make it work.
And obviously there's a lot of room for happy accidents
and discovery along the way.
But like you're not just gonna like,
just plug this in and immediately like
start banging out something unique with it.
It takes a lot of effort to get creative with it.
And I liked that, but I also felt it was very redundant.
Mainly because I have a modular already, you know what I mean?
Like everything that I do in my modular
is mostly drum and rhythm based.
Like I kind of have three cases at this point
that are all geared in that direction
that I already have to carefully think out
and patch out from scratch every time.
Having a pulsar right next to my modular kind of felt
like there was way too much overlap there.
And just, I don't know.
You know what I mean?
Like I didn't need two major expensive machines to do that.
- Especially if it's like a good bit of configuration
and patching that it's like,
well, I'm already gonna patch over here.
- Exactly.
Like it felt like a microcosm of my modular.
Like the even call it a drum machine, I think,
is kind of not doing it enough justice.
It is a mini modular.
It's four voices surrounded by utilities
and voltage recorders and voltage controlled effects.
You know, like everything in there is broken down.
Like you got your clock dividers, your tenuators,
your like, what else was there?
There's a number of things on there
that are like modular style utility.
- And just real quick, like there's,
you couldn't save anything.
You're basically starting from scratch
every time you turn it on.
- I mean, you can save your loops that you've recorded.
Yeah, you have a few banks that you can work with
to save like your recorded loops.
And that's basically how you would make a song,
so to speak.
You would record different structures into each bank
and then on the fly you could balance between banks,
you know what I mean?
And like a monetized fashion or not.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
Kind of like jumping from pattern to pattern
to create variants with your loops.
But like you're only gonna do that for like a song.
You know what I mean?
Which comes back to like performing live.
Like you could probably gonna be banging out that stuff live
if you wanna perform with it.
Because otherwise you're gonna be very limited
with what you can set up ahead of time to work with.
You're either gonna be tweaking it live
or you're gonna be sequencing it live.
You don't really have enough hands to do both.
You have to figure out how you would approach that.
- It's kind of interesting to hear you talk about it.
'Cause as I, you know, not to derail too much
but I sold the MPC1 and it was a similar thing
like it was, that thing's a fucking computer.
And like it was like you have to do what it wants you to do.
It was harder to get it to be a part
of what I wanted to have done.
And I may be at the point where it's like,
I can't, I don't know if I can deal with like another
something like the analog rhythm that's different.
Like I'm feeling kind of like I need to use what I have
and find things that can work with it
because I'm not gonna change too much right now.
Maybe it's just right now.
But it sounds like a similar like you're not gonna,
you can't come to the party, I'm not gonna go to yours.
Maybe you don't, it'll make like a weird little machine.
- Yeah. (laughs)
That made perfect sense oddly.
- Yeah, I mean, if I were to ever sell
or downsize my modular quite a bit,
I would probably pick up a Pulsor again.
I think it would be perfect.
A little self-contained modular percussion box.
- No, or, but it's just gonna be like that thing
when Nick and I both got dark matter
and we're fired up for it.
And you were like, I have all these other modules
to get that sound.
Is this the type of thing we're later gonna be like,
I've got like two full racks to get what the Pulsor
was giving me in a small box.
- Possibly, yeah.
I mean, it is expensive for sure.
Like I felt like the price was a little high.
But then when I kind of like broke it down in my head
and I'm thinking, well, if you break it down
per section of the device there,
like you got your utility, your effects, your voices,
like it's, you're, I don't think you're gonna be able
to beat that price if you were to build that all out
in a modular box, you know what I mean?
So like for someone who doesn't already have a modular
and are trying to get something in that direction,
you know, like they want an industrial style modular
drum machine, you could definitely like bypass trying
to piece it all together and just get a Pulsor
and have everything at your disposal
that you would ever need right there pretty much.
And then if you ever wanted to expand, it's compatible.
Like there's converters on the top left
where you can take, you know, modulations CV
from your Euro rack and it'll convert it
so that you can clip the alligator clip to that post
and now direct it anywhere within the Pulsor.
- Oh, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah.
So Vlad definitely thought this thing through.
Like I just, there was many times when I was playing
with it and I was just like kind of giggled on myself.
I'm like this dude really thought this thing through.
Like he's truly a fucking mad scientist of our time.
- Yeah, that's interesting.
I kind of expected your complaints to maybe be around
connectivity or like integrating it with another system
'cause I saw the post and the touch pads and I'm like,
oh, that might be like a,
- No.
- It's like an A-ing to integrate, but it sounds like no.
- Yeah, I was able to integrate it seamlessly.
It was awesome.
For two weeks that it's out on my desk,
it was basically an extension of my modular.
And that was ultimately why I sold it
because I was like, I didn't want to extend
my modular any further.
You know what I mean?
I didn't want to add something else that meticulous.
- Yeah, yeah.
That makes perfect sense.
- And around the same timeframe of the complete opposite
side of the spectrum, I had also gotten the electron cycles,
which I'm still very much enjoying
and I like the contrast of it.
You know what I mean?
It's completely different from like the Pulsor
or my modular sound-wise, functionality-wise
and price-wise.
So I kept the cycles as weird as that sounds for me
and sold the Pulsor for what I paid for it.
- That sentence has to be on the,
I mean, even in 2020, being the year that it is,
that has to be one of the least likely sentences
that anyone would have thought
they were gonna hear this year.
- I know, trust me, I surprised myself to hear me say it.
But I'm still like kind of really digging the cycles.
If for 300 bucks, I feel like you can't beat it.
It's the perfect contrast to what I was looking for.
I didn't want something, like I said,
that felt like an extension of my modular.
I wanted something different.
For when I need to shift gears and not sit there
and patch everything from scratch,
when I can create some sounds, save them
and then recall them whenever I need them again.
So yeah, the cycles has been doing a lot
in my setup right now.
And I don't have that guilt either.
Like I kind of felt, I don't wanna call it buyer's remorse
when I bought the Pulsor, but I was like,
I just, it kind of, it was hard for me to justify
having it knowing how much it cost and what it was doing
and that there was overlap in the studio.
But yeah, I kind of felt unburdened when I sold it,
to be honest.
- That makes sense too.
- Yeah, like it felt like when I spent a lot of money
on something, I put this weight on myself to,
yeah, you know what I mean?
To make sure that I'm getting my money's worth
and that I'm not just like spending my money for no reason.
Like I gotta be getting my value out of it and.
- Yeah, I still have a Jupiter 6 upstairs
that I never use.
It needs to have like repairs done on it,
but like I can't make that happen right now.
Granted, I paid $700 for that synth,
not nearly what it could be sold for,
but it bugs me that it sits up there.
Someone could be fucking using it and that's,
I don't know if I would be me if it was working right now.
You know?
- Yeah, I think it's a great machine.
I don't wanna dissuade anyone from checking it out.
You know?
- I don't think you have either.
'Cause as you're describing this,
like I'm sitting here going like, oh man, that wouldn't.
Sounds like something I should check out.
This sounds like an amazing fucking machine
just wasn't for you.
- Yeah, I mean, it all comes back to what I was saying earlier.
Like I'm putting a lot of thought and effort
into workflow right now.
And I felt like A, there was too much redundancy there
and B just didn't fit the workflow.
It's not that the machine didn't fit my studio
or the sound didn't fit me.
Like quite the contrary, I feel like it was
almost a perfect fit for me.
Sound wise, like I spent a lot of effort
trying to make things kind of sound that way.
And Vlad just has it all there, ready to be tapped into.
It's pretty convenient, you know?
But yeah, it's all just a workflow thing.
- Well, it's cool.
I mean, now there's another one out there in the wild.
Maybe someone's gonna get this in,
make sure that we wanna hear.
- Yeah, I mean, I hope.
There also seems to be a lot of people who aren't,
who are just skimming the surface with it.
Like I was watching a lot of YouTube demos
and there's a lot of people who are just doing
like the very base thing with it.
- It is pretty new and it's a new workflow,
the new idea, like give people a little bit of a chance
to like break out of the mold a little bit.
- I did see some people buying it
and just making like four, four X, O, X style sequences with it.
I was just scratching my head as to like why
you would spend that much money
and get a machine that is that like deep to do that.
- Oh yeah, like we talked about a little last time,
you know, it's like, what are you thinking
if you're trying to get nine or nine out of that thing?
- I don't know, I feel like it's a little,
it's a little early.
People got this, they're going to, you know,
the tried and true techniques
and while they're getting their feet under them with it,
I still have cautious optimism
that people can do cool stuff with it.
It's just too early to expect that out of them.
- Yeah, it's a new instrument.
It's gonna take someone years to actually get like
really good with it, you know, maybe not that long.
But, yeah, do you know, like half of this shit
when you buy it, it's like some idea
about how it might function
and then you get to the reality of it
and just might not be what you thought.
- Yeah, I would definitely say there's not a whole lot
that out there that can prepare you for it, you know what I mean?
Like unless you're well versed in modular
or circuit bent machines,
you know, from a percussion standpoint,
it's gonna be unfamiliar territory for sure.
- I think he's got a bit of a cult following going on too
or at least people that are like really psyched about
Lira gear, you know.
- I can see that for sure, yeah.
I don't know if I wanna go as far as to say
that I'm like a Vlad fanboy or anything
but I definitely been like paying close attention
to everything he's been making.
- You got the pipe.
- Yeah, you got the pipe.
I did not get the Lyra
and I had a brief love affair with Paul Source.
So I don't know what that makes me
but I think he's doing great work.
I hope he keeps it up.
I mean, I'm sure he will.
Like these things are selling out, you know,
as soon as they're built.
He's for $200, 2000 bucks a pop.
I feel like there's gotta be some profit margin in there
that he's making, you know, for the amount that he's selling.
For sure, like, I was tempted by the Lyra.
Like as I had the Paul Source sitting there,
I was kind of like, you know what,
that Lyra is even more appealing right now
would be the perfect companion to that and the pipe
but yeah.
Well, I'm done babbling about the Paul Star.
Are you sure?
I think so, yeah.
I think that sums it up.
- So what else was on everyone else's list?
- I didn't have too much more.
We could talk about the effects aid.
- Oh, it's still impossible to get.
- Yeah.
So, you know, like apparently it turns out
there was a shipping issue with the effects aids
that were coming to the United States
and they were in limbo and probably still in limbo,
technically, but apparently they've cleared shipping
but I just checked the analog cave in sight
and didn't see anything.
- This is becoming like a multi-episode saga.
Our quest to get the effects aid, dude.
Like we've been trying to get these
for the last seven, eight months now, I think.
- Yeah.
- We've talked about it in like four or five different episodes
but we still can't fucking get one.
- And then I saw like you can pre-order them
from a website in Canada that I'd never heard of
and I'm just like, well, is this just some idea
about you getting effects aids
or like do you have shit to sell?
It's no pre-order. - I wouldn't trust that.
- Yeah, no, it's like when is that?
See, it's a hard one to get.
- Everything's been hard to get right now, man.
Like anything new that I've got in my rig
has taken either months of pre-order wait
or I just got lucky and like grabbed one the minute
they got in stock somewhere only to see them go out of stock
like minutes after I place my order.
- Oh yeah, Dave and I ordered audio jacks
for our IntelliJel 7U cases.
Most people don't know this and I didn't either
but that actually, there's another version
of the IntelliJel 7U with different internal guts
and it lets you do some different stuff.
It like normalizes the headphone to the output tile
which was the big thing I wanted.
Those, I even got a survey from the USPS to be like,
"Oh, this lost package claim that you filed."
Blah, blah, blah.
How's that going?
Everything was zeros 'cause nobody's even gotten back to me yet.
It's been almost two weeks now and I have no idea.
Luckily it's just like it's $50
'cause they were like 24 bucks each or something.
So I'm not like super sweating it
but I can't use like two of the tiles I have now
because that shit hasn't arrived
but it's just like, I was getting like consistent service
from USPS for years and years
and it's just been like chaos lately.
- This is just a frightening view into the future
where like there are no stores anymore
and everything is delivered
and what happens when that falls apart.
- Right.
Yeah, like I got a rample, a squirrup,
square armpel ordered directly from them
'cause it was the only place that they were unstuck.
It took me like two weeks to get
when they said it would take two days
but I mean I can complain and it's noticeable.
The delay is, you know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, one of the rample came through,
my tip top audio. - So what about you?
- I do.
I haven't dove into it too much
'cause it's taken so long to get here.
I've only had it for like two days now
but I've been playing with it a lot over the last two days
and I'm digging it.
- Yeah, you talking about it last time
had me going back to check in.
It seemed to do a good design on that.
It looks pretty dope.
- It feels rock solid.
I like to design, the interface is minimal menu adjusting,
you know what I mean?
But at the same time,
you kind of have to set up your kits ahead of time
and stuff.
Like you're not gonna be doing a whole lot from the module.
I haven't looked into it
but I don't even think you can record into this.
But everything is with a single touch of the button
or a double tap to enter the alt mode.
And I've been liking it a lot.
Sweet.
It's kind of exactly what I've been looking for
for a sampler module, you know what I mean?
Nothing too complicated, nothing too limited.
It's like a nice in-between.
It's like definitely not a 301 or like an assimilator
but it's also well more,
much more versatile than like a tip top one
or something like that, you know what I mean?
Yeah, I think they hit a good sweet spot
with that mix of stuff.
And a little more appealing than the sample.
Yeah, I liked it over the slop-hole or whatever
'cause it has effects per channel.
You don't have to like limit
which channels you want to be able to pitch,
adjust and things like that.
It seemed a little more versatile
even though the sample has recording in
and some functionality that this one doesn't.
This is more compact.
It's cheaper and it just seems more versatile
in the ways that I gave a shit about.
So so far so good.
Haven't even gotten to the point of like making my own kits yet.
I've just been playing with what's on board
and bit crushing it and playing with the sample rates,
sample start times, all that, just messing around.
But yeah, that's one of the only things
that have arrived that I ordered.
I got the tip top Z-verb finally.
Oh, right.
That was luck.
Like that had been sold out everywhere for months
and I had them like,
I had one on pre-order, perfect circuit
and just never showed up so I canceled it.
And then like one day I just happened to check Detroit modular
and somehow some way they had a black one in stock.
So I grabbed it up.
Kind of, I like it, but I don't love it, you know what I mean?
It's not that amazing.
Like it has 24 different algorithms,
but they're only like marginally different, you know, like
sonically, just so much so that it's hard to tell
what is what.
So you don't have a screen,
you just have to push the button and flip through them
and sometimes it's hard to hear like noticeable differences
between the algorithms.
That's the tough thing about the FX8 too
is that it just, it sounds great.
Like all the presets are awesome that I've heard basically.
Yeah, and there's so much variance between them, you know,
and you don't have to be limited like with the tip top ones
like, oh, if you want delay, you gotta get the delay module.
If you want reverb, you gotta get the reverb
or you can compromise and get a little bit of both
in your Z5000 or whatever and it's like, eh.
Well, the FX8 also has the advantage of it not being real
and it's just a computer simulation
so they can make it sound however they want.
I mean, it makes it a little bit easier.
It's a mythical unicorn.
Yeah, that we're all chasing.
(laughing)
So the Zverb though, you're gonna keep?
Yeah, I'm gonna keep it.
I'm finding use for it and it's small.
It's definitely smaller than like a ZDSP
and it's nice to have similar--
Your tone is just so down.
Like, like-- Dude, I'm not--
Like, you're-- Like, this is like the opposite
of excitement.
I feel like GUR just made some bad choices with this design
as I've stated in the past in a previous episode.
Like, the fact that it's mono in is kind of dumb.
The fact that, you know, you're limited
to those algorithms and you can't kind of swap them out
via software like you could do with an FX8
or swap out a card like you can do with a ZDSP.
It just kind of feels like a half-assed ZDSP, you know,
that you're limited to a very select few of algorithms
but the algorithms that honor are nice.
So, you know, the biggest appeal that's making me keep it
so far is the fidelity function.
It's like the same idea of manipulating the CV clock
on the ZDSP.
Oh, now do you have to have like a 30 kilohertz?
You don't. You don't have to have any CV to do it.
It's a dedicated knob.
Oh, that's-- So, so you just--
Yeah, like you just twist on the knob
and you immediately start like,
circuit bending the algorithm.
That's a lot better than the ZDSP
because like the ZDSP you had to get like a Dixie
or like a video oscillator
to actually have something fast enough
to like even meet the clock.
Right. So you can get some interesting
aliased, strange, low-five reverb out of it
by fucking with the fidelity.
But on the other hand, we--
I don't even think we can give Ger credit to that
because Erika's FX module,
black hole has the same thing.
It has an op dedicated to doing the same thing,
which I liked on that one too.
But-- So why don't you have that instead?
I just-- I didn't like the algorithms in that one.
There was too many that I didn't need.
Whereas the Z-verb, it's all reverb
and that's all I gave a shit about.
Like I bought it mainly just to do reverb, you know what I mean?
But if it had stereo in, which the Erika did,
I would be way more into it.
Like the way that I've readjusted my workflow,
like everything at the end of chain
goes through the modular at some point.
So having a reverb unit that I can't really use
for external stereo processing just feels stupid to me
in the year 2020, like there's absolutely no reason
why you can't have a stereo input on that thing.
Maybe it saves a few bucks, I don't know,
but I would have gladly spent a few extra bucks
to have that capability.
Everything else that I've ordered recently
is still up in the air, still waiting on the reminder,
still waiting on the flex temporal sequencer.
Got a few other things up in the air too.
Just waiting for them to come.
So the theme of this episode is just you
looking longingly out of the front window.
And like some sort of like postal truck starts to drive by
and you're like a dog, you start panting.
But it's not for you, it's for one of your neighbors
and then you.
You know, I ain't gonna lie, like I've been buying stuff
probably because of, you know, the lockdown.
And I have nothing else to do or look forward to every day
except for when the mailman drives down the street
hoping it's gonna stop at my house and give me a new toy.
- Jesus, I was kidding.
- The mix pre I was like, so where are you gonna go
on vacation this year?
Oh, you're not fucking going on vacation.
She just buy this goddamn thing.
Like you know. - Right.
- That was my justification.
I'm like, well, I would have spent this much on a trip
to like the Outer Banks or something,
but that's not happening now.
So I'll just buy more shit.
(upbeat music)
(dramatic music)